TO DO:
- remove any unneeded includes
    - mem_instructinos.c
    - memory.c


*** README ***

COMP 40 Homework 6 -- um

Date: 22 November 2021

Names:
    - Lexi Shewchuk (ashewc01)
    - Aaron Hamburg (ahambu01)

Help:
    - Got help from Alex, Alan, Patrick.
    - We also appreciated the questions and reposnses on Piazza.

Implementation:
    - All components are correctly implemented.

Departures from Design:
    - Changed "instructions" module to "memory instructions",
        "math instructions", and "I/O instructions"
    - Got rid of next_ID variable -- just used length of Sequence
    - Added Sequence module
    - Added Registers modules

System Architecture:
    - um.c is the driver file, which handles input files and then passes an
        uninitialized array of the correct size to get_m0, from the init.c
        file. This m0 array is passed to um_run, from um_run.c, which handles
        freeing the array.
    - init.c/h has just the one function, get_m0, which fills in the m0
        array with the instructions from the input file. It knows the filename
        of the instruction file, and has a pointer to the start of the m0
        array.
    - um_run.c/h is a sort of sub-driver file for running the instructions. It
        initializes the data structures required for memory and calls functions
        for each instruction. It creates a Memory_T, from memory.c, and a
        Registers_T, from registers.c, which are both incomplete structs,
        meaning that they can only interact with them through functions defined
        in their respective header files. It also has program counter and the
        recycle list (a List_T), and has access to the functions from
        math_instructions.c, mem_instructions.c and io_instructions.c.
    - memory.c/h defines the Memory_T struct which allows the client to create
        memory segments and do operations on them. It does not reveal the
        implementation of the memory to clients since the header file only
        has the incomplete struct.
    - registers.c/h defines the Registers_T struct which allows the client to
        create a set of 8 registers and perform operations on them. It, like
        memory.c/h, doesn't reveal the implementation of fthe registers to
        clients since the header file only has the incomplete struct.
    - math_instructions.c/h defines the instructions add, multiply, divide,
        nand, conditional move, and load val. It performs these operations
        using a Registers_T, which it acts upon using the Registers functions
        on the incomplete struct.
    - mem_instructions.c/h defines the instructions segmented load, segmented
        store, map, unmap, and load program. It performs these operations
        using a Memory_T, a Registers_T, and sometimes the recycle
        list (List_T), all of which are incomplete structs and are acted upon
        using their respective functions.
    - io_instructions.c/h defines the instructions input and ouptut. It
        performs these operations using a Registers_T, which it acts upon using
        the Registers functions on the incomplete struct.

UM Runtime:
- sandmark.um: 204.51 sec for 2,113,497,561 instructions.
    - We added an instruction counter into our um_run.c and printed it at the
        end of the loop to see how many instructions were called, and then
        timed sandmark with this addition to get these numbers. This would mean
        that 50 million instructions would take 4.84 seconds.


Unit Tests:
- halt.um:
    Tests the halt instruction by calling only halt.

- halt-verbose.um:
    Tests the halt instruction by calling it followed by other instructions to
    check if it prevents them from being called.

- load-extreme.um:
    Tests the loadval and output instructions by loading a variety of values
    including 0 and 255, as well as some more readable values, and outputting
    them.

- print-six.um:
    Tests the loadval, add, and output instructions by loading a 0 character,
    adding 6 to it and outputting it.

- add.um:
    Tests the loadval and add instructions by loading a 0 character, adding 3
    to it and outputting it.

- add-zeros.um:
    Tests the loadval and add instructions by loading 0 and adding it to
    itself, then outputting it, to test whether it having 0 in both positions
    causes any issues.

- add-three-zero.um:
    Tests the loadval and add instructions by loading 3 and 0 and adding them,
    then outputting the result, to test whether adding a nonzero with a zero
    works.

- add-zero-three.um:
    Tests the loadval and add instructions by loading 0 and 3 and adding them,
    then outputting the result, to test whether adding a zero with a nonzero
    works.

- add-15-20.um:
    Tests the loadval and add instructions by loading 15 and 20 and adding
    them, then outputting the result, to test whether adding two nonzero
    values works.

- mult.um:
    Tests the multiply instruction by loading 13 and 5, multiplying them and
    outputting the result to see if the multiplication gives what we expect.
    65 (13 * 5) is a readable ASCII character which is why we chose these
    numbers.

- mult-zero.um:
    Tests the multiply intstruction by loading 2 0's, multiplying them, and
    ouputting the result to see if multiplying two zeros works.

- mult-one-zero.um:
    Tests the multiply instruction by loading 1 and 0, multiplying them, and
    outputting the result to see if multiplying a nonzero with a zero works.

- mult-max.um:
    Tests the multiply instruction by loading 2^16, multiplying it by itself,
    then outputting the result to see if it yields 0. This tests whether
    multiplication correctly overflows back to 0.

- divide.um:
    Tests the divide instruction by loading 132 and 2, then dividing them and
    outputting the result. 66 is a readable ASCII character which is why we
    chose these numbers.

- div-0-1.um:
    Tests the divide instruction by loading 0 and 1, then dividing them and
    outputting the result to see if dividing a zero by a nonzero works.

- div-7-3.um and div-3-7.um:
    Tests the divide instruction by loading 7 and 3, then dividing them and
    outputting the result. The first does 7/3, the other does 3/7, to test
    whether the integer division rounds properly.

- mult-div-complex.um:
    Tests the multiply and divide instructions by loading 3 and 4, then stores
    (3 * 4) and (4 * 3), then divides those to see if the communative property
    holds for our multiplication.

- nand.um:
    Tests the nand instruction by loading 0, nanding it, then adding 55 and
    outputting the result to see if we get the 54 ASCII character. This is
    a readable character which is why we chose 55.

- nand-big.um:
    Tests the nand instruction by loading 2^32 - 1 (by loading 0xFFFF, then
    multiplying by 2^16, then adding 0xFFFF, then adding them together),
    nanding it and outputting the result to see if it yields 0. This checks
    that nand works with numbers close to 2^32.

- add-big.um:
    Tests the loadval, add, multiply and nand instructions by loading 1 and
    loading 2^32 - 1 (by loading 0xFFFF, then multiplying by 2^16, then adding
    0xFFFF, then adding them together). Nands the 2^32 - 1 and outputs it to
    check if it gives 0 (to ensure that the 2^32 - 1 is correct), and then
    adds 1 and 2^32 - 1 to see if that also gives 0 . This tests if addition
    correctly overflows back to 0.

- input.um:
    Tests the input instruction by repeatedly taking input and then outputting
    it. Takes inputs 0, 1, 2, A, B, Z, a, b, z, ÿ (ascii 255) to test a variety
    of readable inputs.

- input-weird.um:
    Tests the input instruction by taking two inputs then outputting them.
    The input file for this was created by doing putchar(0) and putchar(255),
    to test for extreme values.

- cond-move-2.um:
    Tests the conditional move instruction by loading 1 into the condition,
    outputting r2 after the cond_move. Checks if it moves the values with a
    nonzero condition.

- cond-move-0.um:
    Tests the conditional move instruction by loading 0 into the condition,
    outputting r2 after the cond_move. Checks that it doesn't move the values
    with a zero condition.

- cond-move-16.um:
    Tests the conditional move instruction by loading 1024 into the condition,
    outputting r2 after the cond_move. Checks if it moves the values with a
    large nonzero condition.

- map.um
    Tests the map instruction by loading 5 as the size of the segments,
    then mapping 6 segments into registers 1-6, then outputs r6. Checks if the
    segment IDs increase for each map.

- unmap.um
    Tests the map and unmap instructions by mapping a segment and unmapping it,
    then outputting r1 to make sure the segment mapped into ID 1. Tests that
    unmap properly works.

- map-unmap.um
    Tests the map and unmap instructions by mapping 4 segments, unmapping 2 of
    them, then remapping 3. Then outputs the IDS of all of the segments that
    were mapped to see if they correctly map into unmapped IDs.

- store-load.um
    Tests the segmented store and segmented load instructions by mapping a
    segment of length 5, storing 20 into the 3rd index, then loading the 3rd
    index of segment 1 and outputting the result. Checks if store and load
    properly access the segmented memory.

- load-program.um
    Tests the load program instruction by repeatedly calling load programs
    and outputs such that it should skip every other output call. Tests
    calling load program on m[0].

- load-halt-program.um
    Tests the load program instruction by mapping a segment of length 1,
    writing a halt instruction into it, and loading it, followed by an output.
    The output shouldn't run if the load works properly, tests loading a memory
    segment other than m[0].


Time:
    Analyzing assignment: 1 hour
    Preparing design:     5 hours
    Solving problems:     14 hours